docs:  focus homepage on discussing what Substrait is (#538)
substrait-io/substrait: site/docs/index.md

## What is Substrait?

> Substrait enables interoperability between different implementations of the data compute ecosystem.  This allows one to make the best solution for any problem by choosing the best components.  It doesn't matter if they use different languages or run on different operating systems -- they just work together.

Reviewer: @EpsilonPrime do you want to say what Substrait the _project_ is, or what Substrait the _format_ is?

As is, it's more describing the project—which is fine but maybe adds a layer of indirection for people who are trying to grok how Substrait fits into a system architecture.

Author: Thanks for getting that feedback.  I've updated the PR with this in mind.

> Substrait enables interoperability between different implementations of the data compute ecosystem.  This allows one to make the best solution for any problem by choosing the best components.  It doesn't matter if they use different languages or run on different operating systems -- they just work together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Substrait is a format for describing compute operations on structured data. It is designed for interoperability across different languages and systems.
```

Reviewer: This answers the question "what is Substrait" with a noun phrase (it's a format) and it principally describes the format, not the project.

## What is Substrait?

Substrait is a format for describing compute operations on structured data. It is designed for interoperability across different languages and systems.

## How does it work?

> Substrait provides a well-defined, cross-language [specification](spec/specification) for data compute operations.  This includes a consistent declaration of common operations, custom operations and one or more serialized representations of this specification.  The spec focuses on the semantics of each operation.

Reviewer 2: I'd an additional sentence here along the lines of "In addition the format and specification, the Substrait community also includes a number of libraries and other useful tools [to get started](/do_we_have_a_list_of_tools_like_validator_isthmus_etc)

Author: Done.

> Substrait provides a well-defined, cross-language [specification](spec/specification) for data compute operations.  This includes a consistent declaration of common operations, custom operations and one or more serialized representations of this specification.  The spec focuses on the semantics of each operation.  In addition to the format and specification, the Substrait community also includes a number of libraries and other [useful tools to get started](/tools/producer_tools/).

Reviewer 3: > This includes a consistent declaration of common operations, custom operations and one or more serialized representations of this specification.

I find this sentence a little hard to follow.  Maybe shorter sentences?

```
Substrait allows for common operations to be expressed consistently in different systems.  It also contains many extension points for expressing custom operations.  The specification can be serialized into various formats.
```

> In addition to the format and specification

What is "the format"?  I'm not sure that is defined anywhere.

Author: Updated the text a bit, I hope I got what you were looking at.

We highly recommend the [tutorial](/tutorial/sql_to_substrait/) to learn how a Substrait plan is constructed.

## Benefits

* Avoids every system needing to create a communication method between every other system -- each system merely supports ingesting and producing Substrait and it instantly becomes a part of the greater ecosystem.
* Makes every part of the system upgradable.  There's a new query engine that's ten times faster?  Just plug it in!
* Enables heterogeneous environments -- run on a cluster of an unknown set of execution engines!

> * The text version of the Substrait plan allows you to quickly see how a plan functions without needing a visualizer (although there are Substrait visualizers as well!).

Reviewer 4: Should we hold off on mentioning a visualizer until we can provide a link/more information on it?

Author: One of my pending PRs has a link to Substrait Fiddle which should cover that.

## Example Use Cases

* Communicate a compute plan between a SQL parser and an execution engine (e.g. Calcite SQL parsing to Arrow C++ compute kernel)
* Serialize a plan that represents a SQL view for consistent use in multiple systems (e.g. Iceberg views in Spark and Trino)
* Submit a plan to different execution engines (e.g. Datafusion and Postgres) and get a consistent interpretation of the semantics.
* Create an alternative plan generation implementation that can connect an existing end-user compute expression system to an existing end-user processing engine (e.g. Pandas operations executed inside SingleStore)

> * Build a pluggable plan visualization tool (e.g. D3 based plan visualizer)

Reviewer 3: This is repeated here and in the about.md page. Is that intentional?

Author: Removed from the about section (the examples being here should help elucidate the project better).
